README.md, before:

# The Weather Project

A simple web application to monitor Weather of cities with a frontend built using **HTML, CSS, JavaScript** and a backend using **Node.js & Express**.

## Folder Structure
```
Weather/
│── frontend/       # Contains HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files
│── backend/        # Contains Node.js server files
│── README.md       # Project documentation
|── .env            # File to hold Environments Variables (API KEYS etc.). User must create this locally.
```

## Prerequisites
Make sure you have the following installed:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v20 or later recommended)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (comes with Node.js)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

---

## How to Run the Application
### 1. Clone the Repository
```sh
git clone https://github.com/lvick86/Weather.git
cd your-repo
```

### 2. Create .env file to store API Keys
1. Create a `.env` fil in the root directory
2. Add a variable `GEO_KEY` which should store the `API KEY` for the `GeoCode` API
```sh
GEO_KEY = "<REPLACE_WITH_GEOCODE_API_KEY>"
```

### 3. Install Task Runner 

1. Open **Command Prompt (cmd)** or **PowerShell**.
2. Run the following command:
   ```sh
   npm install -g @go-task/cli
   ```
3. Wait for the installation to complete.
4. Restart **VS Code** to apply changes.

Now you're ready to use Task Runner in your VS Code environment! 🚀


### 3. Start the Backend Server to serve the frontend files + open API connection to fetch weather data. (via Task)
```sh
task run
```
By default, the backend runs on **http://localhost:3000**.

---

### 3. You can also run the server as a docker container like so.
```sh
task docker-run
```
By default, the backend runs on **http://localhost:3000**.

---

## API Endpoints
| Method | Endpoint         | Description         |
|--------|----------------|--------------------|
| GET    | `/api/weather?latitude=<value>&longitude=<value>`    | Get the weather data based on `lat` & `long` values |
| GET    | `/api/geocode?city=<city_name>`    | Gets the coordinates of a given city

---

Commit message:

Update read me to include branching strategy moving forward

README.md, after:

# The Weather Project

A simple web application to monitor Weather of cities with a frontend built using **HTML, CSS, JavaScript** and a backend using **Node.js & Express**.

## Folder Structure
```
Weather/
│── frontend/       # Contains HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files
│── backend/        # Contains Node.js server files
│── README.md       # Project documentation
|── .env            # File to hold Environments Variables (API KEYS etc.). User must create this locally.
```

## Prerequisites
Make sure you have the following installed:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v20 or later recommended)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (comes with Node.js)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

---

## Local Setup
### 1. Clone the Repository
```sh
git clone https://github.com/lvick86/Weather.git
cd your-repo
```

### 2. Create .env file to store API Keys
1. Create a `.env` fil in the root directory
2. Add a variable `GEO_KEY` which should store the `API KEY` for the `GeoCode` API
```sh
GEO_KEY = "<REPLACE_WITH_GEOCODE_API_KEY>"
```

### 3. Install Task Runner 

1. Open **Command Prompt (cmd)** or **PowerShell**.
2. Run the following command:
   ```sh
   npm install -g @go-task/cli
   ```
3. Wait for the installation to complete.
4. Restart **VS Code** to apply changes.

Now you're ready to use Task Runner in your VS Code environment! 🚀


### 3. Start the Backend Server to serve the frontend files + open API connection to fetch weather data. (via Task)
```sh
task run
```
By default, the backend runs on **http://localhost:3000**.

---

### 3. You can also run the server as a docker container like so.
```sh
task run-docker-container
```
By default, the backend runs on **http://localhost:3000**.

---

## API Endpoints
| Method | Endpoint         | Description         |
|--------|----------------|--------------------|
| GET    | `/api/weather?latitude=<value>&longitude=<value>`    | Get the weather data based on `lat` & `long` values |
| GET    | `/api/geocode?city=<city_name>`    | Gets the coordinates of a given city

---

## Development
To contribute we will following a feature branching strategy, where a feature branch will be created from the `main` branch. After the completion of a feature raise a `Pull Request` on github to merge the feature branch into `main`. When creating a branch use this format

```sh
GITHUB_USERNAME/NAME_OF_FEATURE
```
---
